I don’t know any professional in this field offline. So I learned by 
reading blogs and articles. What I learned is companies get many 
people for interviews, all of the kind who “know” stuff but very 
few who have “built” stuff. So focus on building stuff than mere 
learning and education (e.g. deployment and production are two major
 things). It took me 5–6 months to realize this.

reading other people’s journeys

Learning advanced stats I rarely used - i made mistake by doing so. please avoid it.
only learn following things:
	Basics of Statistics. Not Statistics per se but only the topics specifically necessary for Machine Learning and Data Analysis
	Basics of Bayes Theorem
	Basics of Linear Algebra (only a few small things like matrix multiplication and transposing etc )
	Basics of Big-O Notation 
Yes, nothing fancy but only the basics. All the fancy stuff you can do
 after you land a job. Till then you use Python or R Libraries. 
Instead of trying to learn Mathematical formulas just like in school 
or college, try to learn how to use it using Library calls in Python 
e.g. calculating t-test using Scipy, and learn the math needed to 
understand it:

Thinking the R vs. Python debate required picking just 1.
It is almost the same as when you are doing software development. I went fully Python after that.

Most of data is unstructured.I guessed I should learn NoSQL. But then 
almost all of the job descriptions mention only SQL. Then I will 
think of doing SQL.A good place to start is SQLBolt.

collaborating with people is going to be a big pain if we think of 
it as “another tech job”. There is an excellent book on communicating 
data insights titled “Storytelling With Data” by Cole Nussbaumer 
Knaflic. It is kind of a must-read.

Instead of keeping up with all the papers, a better way to balance your learning is:
    Learn te basics of data cleaning using Pandas (Kaggle datasets have done the 90% of work for you. 
        In real-life, you gotta do all the cleaning. Learn to scrape some data and clean it)
    Learn the basics of machine learning modeling and why we choose one model over the other. 
        What kinds of model fit what kind of domain problems e.g. healthcare vs finances
    Learn how to deploy a model into production (you will know a bit of how the real work feels
         like when you will use Strealmlit, Heroku, and Voila. I have implemented the bear-detection 
         model using Voila here. )

It is a jail, trust me. It is quite frustrating to live with a mindset of “only one way to do something”. 
Ideas don’t have any limits if you look at real-life stories. A solution I have found so far is when I can’t 
find my way around a problem then I will get off the machine and go for a walk if it is evening or 
read a completely unrelated book if it is not evening (some non-fiction e.g.) or go on a motorcycle 
ride and completely forget about the problem. Then I will come back later and try to learn the same 
thing from a different article or blog post while not referring to the original point where I was stuck. 
Just a fresh new perspective on the same problem from someone else.

what skills are most important to help candidates stand out in the crowd and prepare for their careers.
    When you think about it, a data scientist can be responsible for any subset of the following: machine learning
    modelling, visualization, data cleaning and processing (i.e., SQL wrangling), engineering, and production deployment.

 In addition to learning how to use linear_regression.fit(), learn how to write a unit test too!

 It’s clear, however, with the large number of ML engineer openings that companies often want a hybrid 
 data practitioner: someone that can build and deploy models. Or, said more succinctly, someone who 
 can use Tensorflow but can also build it from the source.


Statistical methods are a central part of data science. Almost all data science interviews predominantly focus on 
descriptive and inferential statistics.People often start coding machine learning algorithms without a clear 
understanding of underlying statistical and mathematical methods that explain the working of those algorithms.
This, of course, isn't the best way to go about it.
    Topics you should focus on in Applied Statistics and math:
        Descriptive Statistics — to be able to summarise the data is powerful, but not always. Learn about estimates of location (mean, median, mode, weighted statistics, trimmed statistics), and variability to describe the data.
        Inferential statistics — designing hypothesis tests, A/B tests, defining business metrics, analyzing the collected data and experiment results using confidence interval, p-value, and alpha values.
        Linear Algebra, Single and multi-variate calculus to understand loss functions, gradient, and optimizers in machine learning.

Supervised Learning — includes regression and classification problems. Study simple linear regression, 
                        multiple regression, polynomial regression, naive Bayes, logistic regression, KNNs, tree models, 
                        ensemble models. Learn about evaluation metrics.
Unsupervised Learning — Clustering and dimensionality reduction are the two widely used applications of unsupervised learning. 
                        Dive deep into PCA, K-means clustering, hierarchical clustering, and gaussian mixtures.